HLD and API design


DS Algo
1. tree and BFS related algorithm. 
2. median of linked list
3. Group Anagrams
4. snake and ladder
5. K largest elements in array
6. DP based longest magical sequence question
7. Maximum Longest Pallindrom Subsequence 
8. Find all subsequences with sum equals to K
9. Compare 2 strings in form of linked list each
10. Compare 2 numbers in form of linked list
11. table booking questions
12. max heap based question
13. length of longest substring without repeating characters
14. Find first missing positive integer from an array for non-negative integers.
15. Given list of strings group them into distinct anagrams
16. Find least common ancestor of a binary tree.
17. Minimum weight to reach bottom right corner in matrix starting from top left. you can move only down and right

System Design
1. Design rate limiter (again medium design problem ) *2 - Design a rate limiting algorithm (condensed to token nbucket)
2. Take an existing low fi feature and rebuild it in a constrained period of time.
3. technical questions related to hashing and API design
4. Implement Priority queue .
5. Design Pizza delivery management system.
6. Stock Market Design
8. Attendance Management System
9. Inventory Service Design
10. course scheduler
11. design git class which offers commit,log ,status and branch operations.
12. Design Whatsapp/ Designing a messenger system.
13. alerting and escalation system
14. chess game
16. Design a parking lot


DB 
1. 3rd highest salary in SQL table
2. database design for ecommerce website *2  - design ecommerce DB for product catalogue, order history, inventory
3. design twitter table schema
4. Design a system, that filters and aggregates data in the given time ranges, aggregations, filtering, and storage.
5. Find the second max from the table
6. Clustered and Non-Clustered Index.
7. Design review system data pipeline
8. What are ACID properties
9. What is a transaction
10. Design Schema for restaurant apps like Zomato. *2
11. Difference between sql and no sql database
12. DB Design: Betting application



Technical
1. core java
2. unchecked exceptions, error handling etc
3. super class and sub class
4. Describe the architecture of spring boot
5. What is hashing and how to solve its collisions.
6. API related question for 2 huge DB table comparisons
7. REST
8. How is data sent when in ETL pipeline
9. What are the different types of Garbage collectors
10. Java memory management
11. Kerberos
12. Out of Memory
13. producer consumer problem of thread
14. JVM questions, memory model, GC, immutable
15. How you do code review?
16. What is a semaphore ?
17. How to achieve multitasking in java
18. Hashing and collision in hashing



Puzzles
1. one puzzle was there of 4 people wanting to cross the bridge but they have only 1 lantern.



Third was Director round . He asked me to explain my whole start up architecture High level design. Most critical issues that i have solved.

discussed all aspects involved in software development like Hardware Estimation, Data Model, DB choice, AppServer, Caching, Rest API etc

Management, best practices, solid principles, containers, deployment strategies, review guide lines, motivation, learning new things, whats the most recent topic you learned.

mostly on current experience, architectures, design, databases, concurrency, technology-specific, latest version changes.

**
https://medium.com/@vibhor2611/interview-experience-with-arcesium-8-years-3a15a0a97796






material
1. https://www.scaler.com/academy/mentee-dashboard/class/2619/session?navref=cl_tb_br



SCHEMA DESIGN SESSION
SCHEMA DESIGN ASSIGNMENT 2
SCHEMA PROBLEM DISCUSSION SESSION

LOW-LEVEL DESIGN: SCHEMA DESIGN - ok
LLD (SCHEMA DESIGN II) -ok

SYSTEM DESIGN A, B, C, D -ok

SYSTEM DESIGN V - SHARDING AND MORE ABOUT STORAGE

HASHING I
HASHING II

BACKTRACKING 1
BACKTRACKING 2



HOTSTAR PERSONALIZATION

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2F-DItXtZs&ab_channel=gar1t



token bucket
leaky bucket

fixed window counter

sliding logs

sliding windows counter